### Changing permissions of files(pg-9):

In three-digit octal numbers, 1 represents x , 2 represents w , 4 presents r

So their different sum give the permissions for different users.

7 → `rwx` , 5 → `rx` , 3 → `wx` , 0 → none

### Practice exercises:

1. `$ ls -l /usr` displays the listed information of `usr` directory.
    
    `$ ls -l /root` gave Permission denied.
    
    This is because `usr` directory has `r` permission for all users while `root` directory has `r` permission only for the owner.
    
2. The `man` page has section numbers. Whenever `$ man <command>` is given without section number, `man` shows only the first page found whereas `$ man <number> <command>` shows the command in <number> section.
    
    The table below shows the section numbers of the manual followed by the types of pages they contain:
    1.  Executable programs or shell commands
    2.   System calls (functions provided by the kernel)
    3.   Library calls (functions within program libraries)
    4.   Special files (usually found in /dev)
    5.   File formats and conventions, e.g. /etc/passwd
    6.   Games
    7.  Miscellaneous (including  macro  packages  and  conventions),  e.g.  man(7), groff(7), man-pages(7)
    8.   System administration commands (usually only for root)
    9.   Kernel routines [Non standard]
    
    Thus, `$ man printf` shows manual in shell commands section while `$ man 3 printf` shows manual in library call ( C library for printf)
    
3. You can use -
    - `;` to runs all commands regardless of whether the earlier ones are failed or not
    - `&&` to carry out the second command only if the preceding command executes successfully
    - `||` to execute the second command only if the precedent command returns an error
4. You can use `/` to instruct shell not to interpret the next character. If we use newline, shell ignores it allowing us to continue command in next line.
     ```
     $ ls /
     > -l
     ```
5. The output is the standard `newline-word-byte_size` of `wc` command
    
    `Ctrl+D` means end of file. It tells the shell to stop receiving any input.
    
6. Every input of newline after some keywords just prints them on next line. It continues to receive input in this manner.
7. `Ctrl+C` means interrupt which by default terminates the ongoing application
8. `$ ls -l | wc` lists the `newline-word-byte_size` for the current directory files in listed format. Piping it into `wc` gives `1-3-byte_size` which is obvious since the output is a single line of 3 numbers.
9. `$ du` estimates file space usage taken by directories.
    - `-a` write counts for all files, not just directories
    - `-s` display only a total for each argument
    - `-k` displays in Kilobytes
    - `-m` displays in Megabytes
    - `-h` print sizes in human readable format (e.g., 1K 234M 2G)
10. All these files are device files which are interface to a device driver. For the first character,
    
    `l` represents link file which is a pointer to a file in UNIX.
    
    `d` represents directory.
    
    `c` represents character file which provide unbuffered, direct access to the hardware device
    
    `b` represents block file which allow the programmer to read or write a block of any size (including single characters/bytes) and any alignment(buffered)
    
    Refer to this [link](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/18239/understanding-dev-and-its-subdirs-and-files) for more info
    
11. A file's link count is displayed in the second column of output from the `ls -l` . This number represents the total number of links that have been created to point to the data. A directory, by default, has at least 2 links - one link is to itself and the other is to parent directory.
12. 
    
    ```bash
    $ cat > testfile.txt
    This file is for test purpose
    ^C
    $ ls -l
    .
    .
    .
    -rw-rw-r--  1 <user> <user> 30 <date and time> testfile.txt
    .
    .
    .
    $ ln -s testfile.txt T
    $ ls -l
    .
    .
    .
    lrwxrwxrwx  1 <user> <user> 12 <date and time> T -> testfile.txt
    .
    .
    .
    
    ```
    
    All permission is given for T.
    
    ```bash
    $ chmod 000 T
    ```
    
    Permission for file testfile.txt is now 000.
    
    This is because we changed the permission of file pointed by T i.e. testfile.txt
    
    ```bash
    $ rm T
    ```
    
    Symbolic link T is deleted but pointed file remains unaffected.
    
    ```bash
    $ ln -s testfile.txt TT
    $ rm testfile.txt
    rm: remove write-protected regular file 'testfile.txt'? Y
    ```
    
    testfile.txt is deleted but the symbolic link still points to testfile.txt which now doesn’t exist
    
13. 
    
    ```bash
    $ touch abc.txt
    ls -l
    .
    .
    .
    -rw-rw-r--  1 <user> <user> 0 <date and time> abc.txt
    .
    .
    .
    $ ln abc.txt ABC.txt
    $ ls -l
    .
    .
    .
    -rw-rw-r--  2 <user> <user> 0 <date and time> abc.txt
    -rw-rw-r--  2 <user> <user> 0 <date and time> ABC.txt
    .
    .
    .
    ```
    
    A hard link file has been created with same content as the pointed file.
    
    ```bash
    $ echo "testing" > abc.txt
    $ ls -l
    .
    .
    .
    -rw-rw-r--  2 <user> <user> 8 <date and time> abc.txt
    -rw-rw-r--  2 <user> <user> 8 <date and time> ABC.txt
    .
    .
    .
    ```
    
    The changed content is reflected in the hard link file.
    
    ```bash
    $ rm abc.txt
    $ ls -l
    .
    .
    .
    -rw-rw-r--  1 <user> <user> 8 <date and time> ABC.txt
    .
    .
    .
    ```
    
    The hard link file still exists. The linker count is decreased by 1.
    
14. `pwd` - print name of current/working directory
    
    `chmod` - change file mode bits. `-R` enables permission change of files and directories recursively.
    
    `chown` - change file owner and group
    
    `chgrp` - change group ownership
    
    `date` - print or set the system date and time
    
    `time` - run programs and summarize system resource usage
    
    `strings` - print the sequences of printable characters in files
    
    `exit` - cause normal process termination
    
15. There are 11 days missing (from 3rd to 13th September) in the calendar. This has historical origin.
    
    > The Gregorian Reformation(modification of Julian calendar) is assumed to have occurred in 1752 on the 3rd of September. Britain and the British Empire (including the eastern part of what is now the United States) adopted the Gregorian calendar in 1752, by which time it was necessary to correct by 11 days.
    > 
